So let's start using the AWS Service Catalog.
For this, first of all, I wanna show you something.
It's on the Preferences.
You can actually update the branding
to customize the appearance of the console for the users.
So, as we can see right now,
we have the Service Catalog logo,
but you can actually put your own logo
and choose your own primary accent color
as well as brand name.
To do so, it's supported only in some regions.
So, click on this if you don't have this.
And then you need to submit a request right now.
Enter all this information to AWS and click Submit,
and this is going to create a support ticket,
then it's going to update your branding.
So we won't do it right now, but you get the idea,
because the Service Catalog
is a portal for your own company.
So now, let's go and create products for Service Catalog
before we deploy these products.
So on the left-hand side, we click on Product List,
and then let's Create a Product.
And we have multiple options. We can use CloudFormation.
That's the one we will use
to use native AWS CloudFormation templates,
but you can also use Terraform
with this option or that option.
But right now, it's out of the scope,
so let's just use CloudFormation.
So this one is going to be called LAMP Stack,
and it's going to deploy.
The LAMP Stack, it's just a name for a specific stack.
And we're going to use CloudFormation,
so this is my product name
and the owner is whoever is publishing this product,
so I'm going to use Stephane.
Now for version details, I have several options.
I can specify a CloudFormation file,
and I will use a template file
that I will upload right now from my lamp-stack.json file,
which is in my code under Service Catalog.
So this is just a normal CloudFormation file,
and I will call this version First Version.
Okay, great.
So, next you can enter some support details.
So who within your company can be a point of contact
for support in case the tech is not working?
So this is very helpful,
again, from a self-service perspective.
So, let's create this product.
And it has been created.
Now, you need to add this product into a portfolio.
So, we have local and imported portfolios.
Imported is when you want to import from other accounts,
and local is to create it for your own accounts.
So let's create a portfolio,
and I'll call this one WebDevPortfolio
because this is just for web developers.
Who is the creator name?
So, again, it's going to be Stephane,
and let's create this portfolio.
Now, within the portfolio,
as you can see, I can add products.
So, we can create product from here
or add a product to a portfolio.
And I will use my LAMP Stack product
that I have created from before.
Okay, so now my product has been assigned to my portfolio.
And so now we want to provide access to this portfolio.
So for this, let's have a look at the different options.
So, Constraints tells how you can add constraints
to how products are launched.
It's a bit advanced, but you can explore on your own.
The idea is that you can restrict
the type of the options the users have
to make it even more simple for them or for extra safety.
Access is to give access
to specific IAM Principles and Principle Names.
Sharing is to share with other accounts.
And tags are for tagging.
So, let's go into Access and grant access.
So you have two options.
Either you choose IAM Principal,
this is for your own accounts,
or if you intend on sharing this with another account,
you would use Principal Name.
So let's use IAM principle,
and you have to choose which groups
or which users should have access to our portfolio.
So, for example, here I have Stephane,
I have test, and I have admin.
So you have to add them one by one,
so let's just add users and grant access.
In here, let's refresh.
You see you have two types of users that have access,
but also I could just add admins if I wanted to
and have also a group in there.
So now I have to log in
as my user Stephane for this account.
For this, I'm going to log out of this account.
So, I'm entering my account ID,
my IAM username, and my password,
and then I click on Sign In.
So now, I'm signed in AWS.
And so, I'm going to go into Service Catalog.
And in there on the left-hand side, under Products,
as you can see, now I have access to my LAMP Stack
because I was authorized before.
So let's launch this product
and we're going to enter product name,
so DemoLaunchProduct.
Product version is this one.
Database name is this.
Database password is going to be password123.
Again, password123.
DBUser is going to be Stephane.
The instance type is going to be t2.micro,
and SSHLocation is fine.
So, let's launch this product.
And behind the scene,
these were all CloudFormation parameters
that I've just entered.
And so, therefore,
this is going to provision a CloudFormation stack.
So, if I go into the CloudFormation service now
and have a look at it, as you can see,
this stack is in Create in Progress,
and this is SC for Service Catalog.
So let's just wait until this is fully created.
So my stack is not created,
but I'm going to close CloudFormation
so to show you what was happening behind the scenes,
and, actually, let's refresh this page in here.
And so, for my Provision product,
this is the one we have launched.
As you can see,
we have a look at the resources that were created,
and we have a look at the events,
and we have a link to the CloudFormation stack,
and we also have a link to the outputs of it.
So, the website URL is right here,
and if I click on it right here.
Let's proceed.
As you can see, this is the welcome page
for my CloudFormation sample page for LAMP Stack,
and this is just an example that shows that it works.
You don't need to do anything with it.
But we were able to successfully provision this product
using Service Catalog, which is awesome.
The outputs can also be found in this output tab.
And that's it.
So you've seen how to have products,
how to launch this product.
Now, of course, to have no cost,
please delete and terminate this product,
which is going to, in fact, delete the CloudFormation stack.
And you're going to be good to go.
So, just to summarize,
we have in the administration side,
the product list that we create,
and we group them into portfolios
where we manage permissions,
and then from the user side,
we can see the products that have been assigned to us
from a permissions perspective,
and then we can provision them as we wish.
And that's it.
So I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.